README.md, before:

# OPQ: One Pooled Queue

[![Travis](https://img.shields.io/travis/fredwu/opq.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/fredwu/opq)
[![Code Climate](https://img.shields.io/codeclimate/github/fredwu/opq.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/fredwu/opq)
[![CodeBeat](https://codebeat.co/badges/76916047-5b66-466d-91d3-7131a269899a)](https://codebeat.co/projects/github-com-fredwu-opq-master)
[![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/fredwu/opq.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/fredwu/opq?branch=master) [![Hex.pm](https://img.shields.io/hexpm/v/opq.svg)](https://hex.pm/packages/opq)

A simple, in-memory queue with worker pooling and rate limiting in Elixir. OPQ leverages Erlang's [queue](http://erlang.org/doc/man/queue.html) module and Elixir's [GenStage](https://github.com/elixir-lang/gen_stage).

Originally built to support [Crawler](https://github.com/fredwu/crawler).

## Features

- A fast, in-memory FIFO queue.
- Worker pool.
- Rate limit.
- Timeouts.
- Pause / resume / stop the queue.

## Usage

A simple example:

```elixir
{:ok, opq} = OPQ.init

OPQ.enqueue(opq, fn -> IO.inspect("hello") end)
OPQ.enqueue(opq, fn -> IO.inspect("world") end)
```

Specify module, function and arguments:

```elixir
{:ok, opq} = OPQ.init

OPQ.enqueue(opq, IO, :inspect, ["hello"])
OPQ.enqueue(opq, IO, :inspect, ["world"])
```

Specify a custom name for the queue:

```elixir
OPQ.init(name: :items)

OPQ.enqueue(:items, fn -> IO.inspect("hello") end)
OPQ.enqueue(:items, fn -> IO.inspect("world") end)
```

Specify a custom worker to process items in the queue:

```elixir
defmodule CustomWorker do
  def start_link(item) do
    Task.start_link fn ->
      Agent.update(:bucket, &[item | &1])
    end
  end
end

Agent.start_link(fn -> [] end, name: :bucket)

{:ok, opq} = OPQ.init(worker: CustomWorker)

OPQ.enqueue(opq, "hello")
OPQ.enqueue(opq, "world")

Agent.get(:bucket, & &1) # => ["world", "hello"]
```

Rate limit:

```elixir
{:ok, opq} = OPQ.init(workers: 1, interval: 1000)

Task.async fn ->
  OPQ.enqueue(opq, fn -> IO.inspect("hello") end)
  OPQ.enqueue(opq, fn -> IO.inspect("world") end)
end
```

Check the queue and number of available workers:

```elixir
{:ok, opq} = OPQ.init

OPQ.enqueue(opq, fn -> Process.sleep(1000) end)

{queue, available_workers} = OPQ.info(opq) # => {:normal, {[], []}, 9}

Process.sleep(1200)

{queue, available_workers} = OPQ.info(opq) # => {:normal, {[], []}, 10}
```

Stop the queue:

```elixir
{:ok, opq} = OPQ.init

OPQ.enqueue(opq, fn -> IO.inspect("hello") end)
OPQ.stop(opq)
OPQ.enqueue(opq, fn -> IO.inspect("world") end) # => (EXIT) no process...
```

Pause and resume the queue:

```elixir
{:ok, opq} = OPQ.init

OPQ.enqueue(opq, fn -> IO.inspect("hello") end) # => "hello"
OPQ.pause(opq)
OPQ.info(opq) # => {:paused, {[], []}, 10}
OPQ.enqueue(opq, fn -> IO.inspect("world") end)
OPQ.resume(opq) # => "world"
OPQ.info(opq) # => {:normal, {[], []}, 10}
```

## Configurations

| Option       | Type        | Default Value  | Description |
|--------------|-------------|----------------|-------------|
| `:name`      | atom/module | pid            | The name of the queue.
| `:worker`    | module      | `OPQ.Worker`   | The worker that processes each item from the queue.
| `:workers`   | integer     | `10`           | Maximum number of workers.
| `:interval`  | integer     | `0`            | Rate limit control - number of milliseconds before asking for more items to process, defaults to `0` which is effectively no rate limit.
| `:timeout`   | integer     | `5000`         | Number of milliseconds allowed to perform the work, it should always be set to higher than `:interval`.

## Changelog

Please see [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md).

## License

Licensed under [MIT](http://fredwu.mit-license.org/).

Commit message:

Ignore rate limiter if no interval is supplied in order to avoid pseudo infinite loop

README.md, after:

# OPQ: One Pooled Queue

[![Travis](https://img.shields.io/travis/fredwu/opq.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/fredwu/opq)
[![Code Climate](https://img.shields.io/codeclimate/github/fredwu/opq.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/fredwu/opq)
[![CodeBeat](https://codebeat.co/badges/76916047-5b66-466d-91d3-7131a269899a)](https://codebeat.co/projects/github-com-fredwu-opq-master)
[![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/fredwu/opq.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/fredwu/opq?branch=master) [![Hex.pm](https://img.shields.io/hexpm/v/opq.svg)](https://hex.pm/packages/opq)

A simple, in-memory queue with worker pooling and rate limiting in Elixir. OPQ leverages Erlang's [queue](http://erlang.org/doc/man/queue.html) module and Elixir's [GenStage](https://github.com/elixir-lang/gen_stage).

Originally built to support [Crawler](https://github.com/fredwu/crawler).

## Features

- A fast, in-memory FIFO queue.
- Worker pool.
- Rate limit.
- Timeouts.
- Pause / resume / stop the queue.

## Usage

A simple example:

```elixir
{:ok, opq} = OPQ.init

OPQ.enqueue(opq, fn -> IO.inspect("hello") end)
OPQ.enqueue(opq, fn -> IO.inspect("world") end)
```

Specify module, function and arguments:

```elixir
{:ok, opq} = OPQ.init

OPQ.enqueue(opq, IO, :inspect, ["hello"])
OPQ.enqueue(opq, IO, :inspect, ["world"])
```

Specify a custom name for the queue:

```elixir
OPQ.init(name: :items)

OPQ.enqueue(:items, fn -> IO.inspect("hello") end)
OPQ.enqueue(:items, fn -> IO.inspect("world") end)
```

Specify a custom worker to process items in the queue:

```elixir
defmodule CustomWorker do
  def start_link(item) do
    Task.start_link fn ->
      Agent.update(:bucket, &[item | &1])
    end
  end
end

Agent.start_link(fn -> [] end, name: :bucket)

{:ok, opq} = OPQ.init(worker: CustomWorker)

OPQ.enqueue(opq, "hello")
OPQ.enqueue(opq, "world")

Agent.get(:bucket, & &1) # => ["world", "hello"]
```

Rate limit:

```elixir
{:ok, opq} = OPQ.init(workers: 1, interval: 1000)

Task.async fn ->
  OPQ.enqueue(opq, fn -> IO.inspect("hello") end)
  OPQ.enqueue(opq, fn -> IO.inspect("world") end)
end
```

If no interval is supplied, the ratelimiter will be bypassed.

Check the queue and number of available workers:

```elixir
{:ok, opq} = OPQ.init

OPQ.enqueue(opq, fn -> Process.sleep(1000) end)

{queue, available_workers} = OPQ.info(opq) # => {:normal, {[], []}, 9}

Process.sleep(1200)

{queue, available_workers} = OPQ.info(opq) # => {:normal, {[], []}, 10}
```

Stop the queue:

```elixir
{:ok, opq} = OPQ.init

OPQ.enqueue(opq, fn -> IO.inspect("hello") end)
OPQ.stop(opq)
OPQ.enqueue(opq, fn -> IO.inspect("world") end) # => (EXIT) no process...
```

Pause and resume the queue:

```elixir
{:ok, opq} = OPQ.init

OPQ.enqueue(opq, fn -> IO.inspect("hello") end) # => "hello"
OPQ.pause(opq)
OPQ.info(opq) # => {:paused, {[], []}, 10}
OPQ.enqueue(opq, fn -> IO.inspect("world") end)
OPQ.resume(opq) # => "world"
OPQ.info(opq) # => {:normal, {[], []}, 10}
```

## Configurations

| Option       | Type        | Default Value  | Description |
|--------------|-------------|----------------|-------------|
| `:name`      | atom/module | pid            | The name of the queue.
| `:worker`    | module      | `OPQ.Worker`   | The worker that processes each item from the queue.
| `:workers`   | integer     | `10`           | Maximum number of workers.
| `:interval`  | integer     | `0`            | Rate limit control - number of milliseconds before asking for more items to process, defaults to `0` which is effectively no rate limit.
| `:timeout`   | integer     | `5000`         | Number of milliseconds allowed to perform the work, it should always be set to higher than `:interval`.

## Changelog

Please see [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md).

## License

Licensed under [MIT](http://fredwu.mit-license.org/).
